---
layout: post
title: The Setup
---

**Update** (09/06/13) : I've been quoted on the [community page of Usesthis](http://usesthis.com/community/). Thanks Usesthis!

**Update** (09/08/13, late) : As I said I the and of the article, I've upgraded my main machine for a 13" 2013 Macbook Air. The full day batterie is really confortable, having a Mac able to handle very large external display too. The laptop is quite powerfull but in the future I may regret havingchosen the basic i5 processor…

This post is inspired by the website [Usesthis](http://usesthis.com/). I'm not
really into geeky exhibitions but I love to talk about my setup, which is
pretty basic but efficient fo my use.

**What hardware?**

My main machine is an old 2008 13" Macbook unibody. Apple made theses only for
few months before the 13" get a Firewire port and became part of the Macbook
pro line.

It's still running with an old 2,4ghz C2D and I've upgrade it with 4gb of
memory and a 128gb SSD. Since I love working with a bigger screen resolution
(I had a 27" iMac in my previous job), I'm using a LG 22inch external display.

I've also an old Mac Mini hidden on a rack used as integration and deployment
server using Jenkins.

As an iOS developer I have an assortment of iOS devices to be able to test my
latests applications in all situations.


**And what software?**

Since I'm an iOS developer, my main tool is of course Xcode.

I also do some Rails development from time to time using Sublime Text 2 and
hosted on Heroku.

My code is hosted on Github and/or Bitbucket, I use Trello as planing tool,
and Redmine for bug tracking.

Last but not least, I'm a long time Spotify user and my playlists get bigger
everyday.

**What would be your dream setup?**

I'm pretty happy with my current setup right now but I'm waiting for the next
keynote to upgrade my main machine for a 13" Macbook Air.

I almost forgot what is like to have more than an hour of battery life and I
would love to be able to use my external screen to it's maximum resolution.
